# Ignite.dev DevOps Intern Project

## Overview

This repository showcases the Ignite DevOps Intern Project, demonstrating the setup and deployment of a Kubernetes cluster using Kind (Kubernetes in Docker). We also deploy a sample Node.js application using Terraform, containerize a simple Hello World Express app, and deploy it to Docker Hub. In addition, we provide a Kubernetes deployment manifest for the Node.js application and use Terraform to apply it programmatically to the Kind cluster.

## Table of Contents

- [Ignite.dev DevOps Intern Project](#ignitedev-devops-intern-project)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Cluster Setup](#cluster-setup)
    - [Node.js Application Deployment](#nodejs-application-deployment)
  - [Project Structure](#project-structure)

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following prerequisites installed:

- Kind (Kubernetes in Docker)
- Terraform
- Docker
- kubectl

## Getting Started

### Cluster Setup

1. Run the provided Bash script to set up a Kubernetes cluster locally using Kind.
   by running the following command:

   ```./cluster```
2. Download the kubeconfig for the cluster and securely store it for later use.

### Node.js Application Deployment

1. Deploy a sample Node.js application to the cluster using Terraform.

### Containerization and DockerHub

1. Containerize a basic Hello World Express app and push it to Docker Hub.

### Kubernetes Deployment Manifest

1. Use the provided Kubernetes deployment manifest to define how the Node.js application should run within the cluster.

### Terraform for Kubernetes

1. Utilize the kubectl Terraform provider to apply the Kubernetes deployment manifest to the Kind cluster programmatically.

## Project Structure

- `cluster.sh`: Bash script for local Kubernetes cluster setup using Kind.
- `node_modules/`: Node.js dependencies for the Hello World Express app. This will be generated by `npm install`
- `terraform/`: Terraform configuration for deploying the Node.js application. This will be generated by `terraform-init`
- `Dockerfile`: Dockerfile for containerizing the Hello World Express app.
- `deployment.yaml`: Kubernetes deployment manifest for the Node.js application.
- `package.json`: Node.js package manifest for the Hello World Express app. This will help to generate the ```package-lock.json file```.
- `server.js`: Node.js server file for the Hello World Express app.

## Usage

Follow the steps outlined in the Getting Started section to set up and deploy the project locally. Each directory and file contains specific instructions and configurations for their respective tasks.

## Bonus Task: Monitoring and Observability

As a bonus task, you can enhance the project by setting up monitoring and observability for the Prometheus cluster using the kube-prometheus stack. This can be orchestrated with Terraform and Helm charts.

## Submission

To submit your work, create a repository with all the project code and configurations and send an email to <intern.task@ignite.dev> on or before the specified deadline.

  